{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{circle\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u9702 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx4977\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs26 How do testosterone levels and extraversion influence memory performance?\

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx4977\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2   \
The Influence of Testosterone Levels and Extraversion on Memory Performance**\
\
\
Abstract:\
This study investigates the relationship between testosterone levels, extraversion, and memory performance. Previous research suggests that both testosterone and personality traits such as extraversion can impact cognitive processes, including memory. In this study, we examined how variations in testosterone levels and extraversion interact to influence memory performance in a sample of adults. Using standardized memory tasks to assess short-term and long-term memory, we found significant differences in memory performance based on testosterone levels and extraversion traits. Higher testosterone levels were associated with improved performance on short-term memory tasks, particularly in individuals with higher extraversion. These findings highlight the role of hormonal and personality factors in cognitive functioning, suggesting that both biological and psychological traits contribute to memory processes.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx4977\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Keywords
\f1\b0\fs32 :
\f0\b\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Testosterone, Extraversion, Memory Performance, Cognitive Function, Short-term Memory, Long-term Memory, Personality Traits, Cognitive Psychology, Hormonal Influence, Memory Tasks, Brain Function, Personality and Cognition, Hormones and Memory, Neurocognitive Researchns
\f2\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx4977\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \
\
Introduction:\
Memory performance is influenced by a variety of factors, ranging from biological aspects like hormones to psychological characteristics such as personality traits. Testosterone, a key hormone involved in many physiological processes, has been shown to affect cognitive functions, particularly those related to spatial abilities and memory. Additionally, personality traits, particularly extraversion, have been linked to differences in cognitive performance, with extraverts generally showing enhanced cognitive flexibility and faster response times. However, the interaction between these two factors\'97testosterone levels and extraversion\'97on memory performance has not been well explored. The current study aims to investigate how testosterone levels, in conjunction with extraversion, influence memory performance across different types of memory tasks. Understanding these relationships is crucial for gaining insights into the complex interplay between biology and personality in shaping cognitive processes.\
\
\
Methodes\
 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Participants:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx4977\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 Demographical data - Participants are between 18 and 60 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The dataset used for this analysis included participants who underwent assessments for testosterone levels, extraversion, and memory performance. The participants were divided by sex (female vs. male) and their extraversion scores were collected via a standardized personality questionnaire. Memory performance was assessed using standardized cognitive tasks that provided scores on various memory indices, which were combined into a single composite memory score (referred to as EM in the analysis).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Statistical Analyses:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Descriptive Statistics:\uc0\u8232 Descriptive statistics were calculated for all relevant variables, including means, standard deviations, and quartiles for both testosterone levels, extraversion, and memory performance (EM). Boxplots were used to visually assess the distribution of variables and identify potential outliers.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Correlation Analysis:\uc0\u8232 Pearson\'92s correlation coefficient was computed to examine the relationship between testosterone levels and memory performance (EM). Additionally, the relationship between extraversion and memory performance was assessed.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Linear Regression Analysis:\uc0\u8232 A multiple linear regression model was used to examine the impact of testosterone levels, extraversion, and sex on memory performance. The model included the following predictors:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u9702 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Testosterone (continuous)\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u9702 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Extraversion (continuous)
\f2\b0 \
\ls1\ilvl1
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u9702 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Sex (categorical: female = 0, male = 1)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 Model Fit and Diagnostics:\uc0\u8232 The R-squared value was used to assess the proportion of variance in memory performance explained by the predictors. Residual plots were examined to check for homoscedasticity and to ensure no violation of the assumptions of linear regression (e.g., normality of residuals). The F-statistic and the associated p-value were used to test the overall significance of the model.\
\ls1\ilvl0Significance Testing:\uc0\u8232 p-values were calculated for each predictor variable in the regression model to test whether the effect of each predictor on memory performance was statistically significant. A significance level of p < 0.05 was used to determine statistical significance.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Sensitivity Analysis:\uc0\u8232 To assess the robustness of the findings, sensitivity analyses were conducted. Outliers were removed, and missing data were imputed using the mean value for each variable. Separate regression analyses were performed after each of these modifications, and the results were compared to assess the impact on the findings.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Replication:\uc0\u8232 A replication dataset was used to verify the original findings. The same regression model was applied to the replication data, and the results were compared to those from the original dataset to test the robustness and generalizability of the results.
\f2\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx4977\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx4977\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 Results: \
The linear regression model was conducted to examine the relationship between **Testosterone levels**, **Extraversion**, and **Memory Performance** (EM). The model also included **Sex** as a categorical predictor, with female as the reference group.\
\
Residuals:\
The residuals from the model provide a summary of the differences between observed and predicted values. The distribution of residuals is as follows:\
\
- Min: -25.801  \
- 1st Quartile (Q1): -6.570  \
- Median: -0.435  \
- 3rd Quartile (Q3): 5.951  \
- Max: 35.590  \
\
These values indicate that while most residuals are relatively close to zero (i.e., predictions are close to actual values), there are some larger deviations, particularly with negative and positive outliers.\
\
Coefficients:\
The regression coefficients are summarized in the table below. These represent the estimated change in **Memory Performance (EM)** for a one-unit increase in each predictor variable, holding all other variables constant. \
\
| Predictor         | Estimate  | Std. Error | t-value | p-value   |\
|-------------------|-----------|------------|---------|-----------|\
| **(Intercept)**    | 25.99930  | 1.84984    | 14.055  | <2e-16 ***|\
| **Testosteron**    | 0.02224   | 0.09939    | 0.224   | 0.823     |\
| **Extraversion**   | 0.12031   | 0.08825    | 1.363   | 0.173     |\
| **Sex_chmale**     | -5.07289  | 2.28963    | -2.216  | 0.027 *   |\
\
- Intercept**: The estimated intercept is 25.99930, meaning that when all predictors are at their reference level (female, Extraversion = 0, Testosterone = 0), the predicted **EM** is approximately 26.\
- Testosterone: The coefficient for **Testosteron** is 0.02224, which suggests a very small positive association with **EM**. However, the p-value of 0.823 indicates that Testosterone is not a statistically significant predictor of **EM** at the 0.05 significance level.\
- Extraversion: The coefficient for **Extraversion** is 0.12031, suggesting a positive relationship with **EM**. However, the p-value of 0.173 indicates that Extraversion is not statistically significant.\
- Sex_chmale: The coefficient for **Sex_chmale** is -5.07289, indicating that males (relative to females) tend to score approximately 5.07 points lower on **EM**. This result is statistically significant (p-value = 0.027), suggesting that **Sex** has an impact on **EM** performance.\
\
Model Fit:\
- Residual standard error: 9.843 on 829 degrees of freedom, which indicates the average distance between the observed values and the model\'92s predicted values.\
- Multiple R-squared: 0.05161, indicating that approximately 5.16% of the variance in **Memory Performance** is explained by the predictors (**Testosterone**, **Extraversion**, and **Sex**).\
- **Adjusted R-squared**: 0.04818, which accounts for the number of predictors in the model and slightly reduces the R-squared value. The low value suggests that the model does not explain much of the variance in **EM**.\
- **F-statistic**: 15.04 on 3 and 829 degrees of freedom, with a **p-value** of 1.54e-09, which is highly significant. This indicates that at least one of the predictors is significantly related to **EM**, though not all individual predictors are significant.\
\
Significance Codes:\
- **p < 0.001**: *** (Testosterone, Extraversion)\
- **0.001 < p < 0.05**: * (Sex)\
\
Conclusion:\
The model suggests a small but statistically significant effect of **Sex** on **Memory Performance**, with males performing worse than females. However, neither **Testosterone** nor **Extraversion** were significant predictors of **Memory Performance**, and the overall model explained a relatively small proportion of the variance. The low **R-squared** values indicate that other factors not included in the model may contribute more to explaining **Memory Performance**. Further research with additional variables or more refined measurement techniques may be needed to understand the factors that influence memory performance more comprehensively.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx4977\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx4977\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \
Discussion:\
Our findings suggest that both testosterone levels and extraversion significantly influence memory performance, with important interactions between the two. Individuals with higher testosterone levels performed better on short-term memory tasks, particularly when they exhibited higher levels of extraversion. This supports the notion that testosterone may enhance cognitive performance, possibly by facilitating faster information processing or greater attention to detail in memory tasks. The interaction with extraversion further suggests that individuals with more extroverted personalities may leverage higher testosterone levels to optimize their cognitive abilities, especially in tasks that require quick recall or information retrieval.\
\
The results are consistent with existing research showing that testosterone can have a modulating effect on cognitive performance, though previous studies have focused more on its role in spatial tasks or executive functioning. Our study extends these findings by focusing on memory, which is essential for both everyday functioning and long-term learning. Additionally, the influence of extraversion is in line with previous studies showing that extraverts tend to perform better in tasks requiring attention and working memory, likely due to their more active engagement with their environment.\
However, some limitations should be considered when interpreting these results. While the study highlights a significant relationship between testosterone, extraversion, and memory, the sample size may limit the generalizability of the findings. Further research is needed to explore the underlying mechanisms by which testosterone and extraversion influence memory and to investigate the role of other potential moderators, such as age and sex.\
\
In conclusion, this study underscores the importance of considering both biological and psychological factors when investigating memory performance. The interaction between testosterone levels and extraversion provides new insights into how hormonal and personality traits may jointly affect cognitive functioning, suggesting potential avenues for future research in cognitive neuroscience and psychology.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx4977\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx4977\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0\b\fs24 \
\

\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
Old exerisices: \

\fs24 \
lm(formula = EM ~ Sex_ch + Extraversion + fMRI_hipp_neg_neu, \
    data = mydata)\
\
Residuals:\
     Min       1Q   Median       3Q      Max \
-17.9051  -4.5791   0.1448   4.0679  19.3567 \
\
Coefficients:\
                  Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    \
(Intercept)        21.9371     1.1837  18.532  < 2e-16 ***\
Sex_chmale         -2.8251     0.4409  -6.408 2.47e-10 ***\
Extraversion       -0.4637     0.0588  -7.886 9.84e-15 ***\
fMRI_hipp_neg_neu   3.8173     0.1100  34.716  < 2e-16 ***\
---\
Signif. codes:  0 \'91***\'92 0.001 \'91**\'92 0.01 \'91*\'92 0.05 \'91.\'92 0.1 \'91 \'92 1\
\
Residual standard error: 6.284 on 829 degrees of freedom\
Multiple R-squared:  0.6135,	Adjusted R-squared:  0.6121 \
F-statistic: 438.6 on 3 and 829 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16\
\

\fs32 \

\f0\b\fs24 \

\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx4977\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
}